Stangle, would you tell us something about your
early life, including the names of your parents,
and if you know them, the dates of their birth and
death and the places of that, the date and place of
your birth, and whatever schools you attended
before you went to A&M and any other childhood
recollections that you may have. Well, Mr.
Schultz, I was born in Stangleville, Wisconsin in
and came to Texas in 1897. I
forget just exactly what. And the reason for
coming to Texas and leaving Wisconsin where I was
born was a terrible loss that my father entailed
while I was just a youngster. This was a financial
loss? Financial loss, yes. In other words, he was
in the lumber and flour mill business, and they had
a flood. And he lost all the lumber because it was
stacked on the banks. The banks caved in, and it
went down Lake Michigan. And his flour was in
sacks, stored, and became paste, you see. So all of
his income was lost. And of course, it just
discouraged him, and he decided he'd get away from
it just as far as he could. Although we did have a
farm, and we lived on that farm for a couple of years
before we came. In Texas,
we came to Bryan, Texas.
Our father's cousin was a Catholic priest, and he
was the one who was responsible for getting us to
Texas.
As you know, the Swift and Armour built their
plants in Fort Worth, and he figured that would be a
good place to take a large family, and that's where
we moved to, to Fort Worth. What was your father's
name? My father's name was John, John J. Stangle.
And your mother's name was what? My mother.
mother's name is Anne, and you want her maiden name
is Seidenglanz, S-E-I-D-E-N-G-L-A-N-Z,
Seidenglanz.
You'll find a lot of this material in Who's Who in
America. You say you were a large family. How many
brothers and sisters did you have? Well, of
course, the original family, I
had two sisters and two brothers. Now, that is the
original family. And my father married me. And
there's five children in that family. And then he
separated from his second wife. My mother died
before I had a chance to know her. I never did know my
mother. And there's five children in that family.
So they're scattered all over the United States,
you might say. Well,
I suppose maybe that's about all the background
you need on. Do you remember anything about the
trip from Wisconsin to Texas? Yeah, I do. Of
course, we were moved, with the help of my uncles,
to a loading dock, we'll say, on Lake Michigan. And
we went in a ship on Lake Michigan to Chicago. And in
Chicago, we caught a train and came by rail to
Bryan, Texas. And that was in the mid-'90s? That is
in the mid-'90s, yes.
I don't know. I think it was 97, to be honest. I think
so. Did you then attend school sometime in Bryan?
Did I? Yes. In other words, I think it was third
grade when I attended Catholic school, and then of
course later a public school, and I went to school
there until my seventh grade, I think. Then your
family moved to Fort Worth. Family moved to Fort
Worth, yes. When they moved to Fort Worth, of
course I moved with them and enrolled in Texas A&M
from Fort Worth. So you completed your high
school, your schooling in Fort Worth then. Right.
How did you happen to choose Texas A&M?
There was just, in my class, graduating class,
there were 10 students, eight girls and two boys,
and I was one of the boys.
And there was only one, two institutions that we
knew, that is Texas A&M and University of Texas.
And since we were in Fort Worth, neither one of us
had the desire to go to University of Texas. So we
graduated in 1910.
And this other graduate, a boy, decided that he was
going to college, and he selected Texas A&M. I
didn't select Texas A&M. In fact, I didn't intend
going to college because my parents weren't able
to send me. But when September came, practically
every member of that class went off to college
somewhere. For instance, Mrs. Dupree, who lives
here in Lubbock, went to Oberlin. And, of course,
John Condon was the boy, and he went to Texas A&M.
And a lot of these others went. For instance, one
girl, of course most of them are dead now, went to
West Texas State at Canyon. Another one there,
Monty Brown, I forget just what school she went to
school. So they all went somewhere, and I was left
in Fort Worth holding a bag.
And so I got to thinking. I was working for Arm and
Company, getting the seventeen and a half cents an
hour. And I went to my father, and I says, if I work
and save my money, can I go to college? He said, yes,
and I'll help you all I can. So I enrolled in Texas
A&M. I did a little bit of checking in your senior
yearbook, and I believe there it said you
somewhere there indicated you had worked for
Swift for a couple years and for the Dunham's
Percheron Farm. Yeah. Where was that? Now this
Dunham's Percheron Farm was in Wayne, Illinois,
and I worked there during the summer, not during
the regular session. That was during the summer
while you were at A&M. Well, I was at A&M, yes. My
first summer on that farm was in 19... I guess 1912,
because I enrolled in 1910, 1911.
I enrolled at A&M in 1911. So you did stay out one
year between high school and... Yeah, I did stay
out one year working to earn enough money to go to
college, and I saved over $700. Was that working at
17 cents an hour? Well, no, I did better than that. I
got increases, gradual increases in salary, and
when I left to go to A&M, I was getting 25 cents an
hour. which was a white-collar job. And, of
course, they told me, we wouldn't go to A&M. We'd go
stay here and work for SWIFT. SWIFT will take care
of you. And I said, no, I'm going to college. This
was the people at SWIFT that told you that? Yeah.
Did you go through any particular special
procedures to go to Texas A&M? Did you have to apply
for admission or something like that? No, I was a
graduate. I was of Northside High School. It was
North Fort Worth when I enrolled there. But during
the time, during my last two years, it became
Northside High
School. And that's when I graduated in 1910 from
Northside High School. So then all you had to do was
get on the train and go down to College Station and
register. Yeah, but I didn't go with this fellow
with whom I graduated the same time I did. I went
with another boy from Fort Worth, and his name was
Fisher.
John Curran Godfrey Fisher, we called him J.K.
Fisher, we called him Blondie. And he had been
there the previous year, so he knew the ropes, you
see. And I became his roommate at A&M in Miller
Hall. So he was a sophomore and you were a fish. I was
a fish, right. And... Were you his man, so to speak,
then? Did you have to do a few jobs for him? Well, of
course, I didn't do all of them for him, but I did a
lot of jobs.
When you arrived there on campus and registered,
and you were a fish in K Company, I believe. the same
company Fisher was in? No, he was in I Company. He
was in I Company. But I and K lived, were in the same
dorm? Right, in the same dorm. And you see there's
four companies to a battalion. And there's two,
the outside companies were the tall fellas, and
the inside companies were the short fellas. So I
got in the company that had the short fellas, and
there was a little maneuvering there. But I got in I
Company,
that is the second year, not the first year. The
first year I was definitely in K Company. You
didn't have any choice in that then? No, not the
first year. The second year, I did. When they asked
me, what company do you want to get in? I said, I want
an eye company. He said, stand under that marker.
And he looked at me and said, you're too short. You
can't get an eye company. And so he says, see
Sargent Zone. talk to him. So I went over to see
Sargent and so on and so on. And I said, I want to get
an eye company. He says, why do you want to get an eye
company? I said, I'm rooming with a boy from Fort
Worth. Both of us are poor boys. And we're going to
buy our books together and share a lot of our
expenses. And that's really So he wrote on this
instance card,
let's see, how did he put that?
K Company, I Company of Room.
So the next sergeant says, well, which company do
you want in? I said, I Company.
K Company, I Company, I mean K Company, I Company
room, so they had room in I Company. So I got in I
Company. And so you know from your experience, the
first week at A&M, they landed line up these
students,
and of course you'd line them up in the company by
size. And in my company, they started with these
tall boys over here, and they came down, down,
down, down. Here I was the last one. And this
captain, Wade Burleson, He looked at me a while and
says, he says, Ron, what the hell do you want in this
company? I says, I want a room with J.K. Fisher. And
he says, well, I'll let you stay in the eye company.
He says, you're too short. I'll let you stay in the
eye company. And I'll try to cover you up, hide you.
And so he did. That first week put me in the rear
rank, the smallest group of eight, and I stayed in I
Company until I returned to A&M after I left A&M in
between enrolling and graduating.
What were your first reactions to the school when
you arrived?
Well, I was very favorably impressed. And I took
the mucks with me. What I'll say, I took the bricks
and the bats both, you know. And I spent my first
night in a tent. We had tents in those days. And
then, of course, I got with this room with Fisher.
Fisher and I had a room on a third, what we called
stoop, third stoop, in Milner Hall. And Milner
Hall was right next to where Subiza Hall is now, but
Subiza Hall wasn't there then. You had the Ole Miss
Hall there. Yeah. You were there during the fire of
the old mess hall. Right. I imagine that was some
exciting times. Oh, well, it was. When the mess
hall burned. The old main burned. The old main
building burned. Then we had, of course, well, I
can tell you a lot of things that happened about
that time. What sort of things? Well, for
instance, whenever... When
the mess hall burned, they built a temporary mess
hall out of tin, you know. And they got it built
during the Christmas holidays. And by marching us
to meals, by the time they said, take seats,
everything on the table was cold.
And if so, we didn't enjoy our meals at all. This was
in the temporary mess hall. Temporary mess hall.
And we were all dissatisfied because we'd all come
home after having had good meals and being taken
care of and so on and so forth. So things were just
not right with us. And I don't know that anybody has
talked to you about the strike. We didn't have a
strike, but we did say we'd do certain things if
you'll do certain things. In other words, we're
not going to classes under these conditions.
But we will attend our military obligations.
We'll march according to schedule, and we'll line
up for our march to meals and so on. Do everything
that we have to do that pertains to military. But as
far as pertaining to academics, we quit. I took, I
think, possibly three exams. before the
president warned us, says, now you have one of two
choices. You can either stay, carry on as you
carried on before this thing happened, or you can
just pack your bags and trunks and take it out for
home. Well, that's what we did. 466 of us signed a
petition not to go to class. And so we did go to
class, and I was one of those that packed up and went
home. This was in what, 1913? This was 1913. And of
course, not all of them left because they figured
it was pretty dirty to take out on those 1913 boys.
not have a final parade, but we did have a final
parade for the 1913 class. When the parade was
over, things broke up. We scattered everywhere
and of course went home. When I arrived home,
My father met me, mouth wide open, and asked to say,
ìWhat are you doing here?î I said, ìWait a minute.
Let me talk.î So I told him what had gone on and what
had happened and so on, and I couldnít say. Thatís
when I left and went to Dunhamís Perchard Farm in
Wayne, Illinois. This was in the latter part of
January.
I stayed there and worked until September
of 1913. This
fellow, Fisher, came up there and worked with me
that summer. And
so I became kind of a horseman, and of course they
wanted me to stay there and work with horses, but I
said, no, I'm going to college. So then the uproar
about in 13 was sparked by the unsatisfactory food
after the fire in the mess hall? Right. Uh-huh.
That plus some other things. We had some illness
that was serious. We had a very popular student who
died from a cut vein. He was hanging a picture and
ended up up on a chair and jumped off this chair and
the glass broke and he cut a He died in that room,
just bled to death right there. He was a very
popular fellow named Leonard, August Leonard.
Then we had some undue hazing and we didn't take
this. take this hazing, and so those that were most
serious in this hazing were expelled, about 21 of
them. And that upset us, you see. This was when
Milner was president, right? Yeah, Milner was
president.
Was there anything comparable to that developed
after the Old Main fire? I believe that was before
the mess hall, wasn't it? Yeah. You mean this fire?
No. The mess hall had already burned up. The mess
hall burned first and then Old Main? First,
yeah.
After the Old Main burned, what did you do for
classrooms? A lot of classes had been held in Old
Main, had there not? Yes. Now, that's lost me. I
don't recall just exactly where we, just where we
held classes. And, of course, the library was lost
at that point, what there was of it. Yeah. Because I
know I helped carry books. Well, I think
possibly... Maybe part of the Old Main building
was saved, and we used the rooms that were saved
there for classrooms, because I recall carrying
books up there and getting paid 15 cents an hour for
doing it. Well, from what pictures I've seen, it
was nothing but a few brick, some of the outside
brick walls left after the fire. You mean the Old
Main? Old Main building, yeah. Maybe that's it.
But then, of course, they started the new building
pretty soon after that. Right away. Yeah, and it
was completed in 14, I believe.
Except for the food that wasn't so good after the
mess hall burned, what would you say about the food
in the mess hall before the fire? Was it pretty
good? Yeah, it was all right. In other words, we
complained about the food, all of us, gained
weight, so I didn't particularly kick on the food.
Of course, I had a job, and I wasn't eating with the
Corps as a sophomore, junior, and senior. I was
working with the Horse Guard. And you ate?
what we call work table. Uh-huh. Was this all the
boys who had jobs? Who had jobs, involved work in
the morning, ate at the same place, work table, you
see. Uh-huh. This would include, did you have
students who worked, waited tables in the mess
hall? Did we? Yes. Yes.
Uh-huh. And they ate at the work table. Work table.
Either that or they just grabbed something before
they went to class and so on.
What about you were still in school when Sbisa Hall
was open, were you not? When Sbisa Hall, the new
mess hall was completed? Yes, I was.
I guess it was completed during Dr. Mazzello's
time. Oh, I'm sure it was because, well, I don't
know. How long were you fed in the temporary mess
hall? I think the rest of that year. But of course, I
wasn't there.
I was one of those that took out. So I think the new
mess hall had been built while I was gone. I see. And
so how was the food there? Pretty good? Very good,
yeah.
What privileges did the upperclassmen have that
the freshmen didn't have?
Could the upperclassmen do things like leave
campus and things of that nature that the freshmen
couldn't? Yeah, they could get a permit. They'd
have to get a permit from the commandant, and they
could have a date once a month. They could have a
dance once a month. Freshmen didn't have any
privileges at all, except for going to class and
getting their
tail licked. It didn't bother me. On that third
stoop, I ran around it many a time. You know,
upperclassmen were up there with their belts,
giving us crack on the butt.
What kinds of things did you do for entertainment
or recreation during the years you were there?
Well, I did not have a date until my junior year. Was
that for one of the big dances? One of the big, yes.
That was my first date. Then I think I had two more
after that as a senior. So I didn't date in the first
place. I didn't have money. to bring a girl down
there and keep a girl until I
didn't have many dates.
I remember the girls very well. One of them was from
Fort Worth and the other one was from Houston.
Did you have a place where you could play dominoes
or anything like that? No. What about, could you
play cards? No. Was that against the rules? That
was against the rules. Could you smoke? Yeah.
Cigarettes or cigars or both? Both.
Cigars cost a nickel. And that's when I started
smoking cigars. I still smoke cigars now. And I
bought one of these aluminum holders, you know. I
like that.